website/versioned_docs/version-5.20.0/get-involved.md, before:

---
title: Get Involved
---

## Interact with the CDM community
 
**GitHub**

CDM activity primarily happens in this [CDM GitHub repository](https://github.com/finos/common-domain-model). [Watch](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/managing-subscriptions-and-notifications-on-github/setting-up-notifications/configuring-notifications#configuring-your-watch-settings-for-an-individual-repository) the repository in order to be notified of new Pull Requests and issues.
 
**Email**

If you'd like to receive official updates, please send an email to help@finos.org. You can join the CDM mailing list by sending an email to [cdm+subscribe@lists.finos.org](mailto:cdm+subscribe@lists.finos.org). 
 
**Meetings**

Finally, another great way to interact with the community is to attend the bi-weekly CDM Contribution Review Working Group, monthly Collateral Working Group, monthly FINOS CDM Structured Products Working Group, monthly Steering Technology Architecture Working Group, and/or quarterly FINOS CDM Steering Working Group: email help@finos.org to be added to the meeting invites directly, or find the meeting in the [FINOS Community Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=finos.org_fac8mo1rfc6ehscg0d80fi8jig%40group.calendar.google.com). 

**Need help?**

Email help@finos.org. if you need help getting started in the CDM Community or if you encounter technical difficulties accessing repositories, mailing lists or meetings. 

## Contacting CDM Maintainers

|FINOS CDM Maintainer  |Representing    |Capacity                                     |GithubID              |    
| -------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |           
| Gabriel Callsen      | ICMA           | OrgRep                                      | gabriel-ICMA         | 
| Tom Healey           | ICMA           | OrgRep                                      | tomhealey-icma       | 
| Vernon Alden-Smith   | ISDA           | OrgRep                                      | valdensmith          | 
| Eleonora Acuna       | ISDA           | OrgRep                                      | eacunaISDA           | 
| David Shone          | ISDA           | OrgRep                                      | dshoneisda           | 
| Adrian Dale          | ISLA           | OrgRep                                      | ADaleISLA            | 
| Chris Rayner         | ISLA           | OrgRep                                      | chrisisla            | 
| Minesh Patel         | Regnosys       | OrgRep                                      | minesh-s-patel       | 
| Leo Labeis           | Regnosys       | OrgRep                                      | lolabeis             | 
| Hugo Hills           | Regnosys       | OrgRep                                      | hugohills-regnosys   | 
| Lyteck Lynhiavu      | ISDA           | OrgRep                                      | llynhiavu            | 
| Manuel Martos        | TradeHeader    | OrgRep                                      | manel-martos         | 
| Marc Gratacos        | TradeHeader    | OrgRep                                      | mgratacos            |
| Nicholas Moger       | JPMorgan Chase & Co.|  OrgRep                                | nicholas-moger         | 

If you would like to get in touch with the CDM maintainer team, contact them through their mailing list at [https://lists.finos.org/g/cdm-maintainers](https://lists.finos.org/g/cdm-maintainers). **You can do so by first subscribing at [cdm-maintainers+subscribe@lists.finos.org](mailto:cdm-maintainers+subscribe@lists.finos.org) and posting at [cdm-maintainers@lists.finos.org](mailto:cdm-maintainers@lists.finos.org) .**

Commit message:

CDM-Documentation Update get-involved.md (#3958)
* Update get-involved.md

versioned docs

* Update get-involved.md

* Update get-involved.md

* Update get-involved.md

* Update get-involved.md

---------

Co-authored-by: eacunaISDA <82891014+eacunaISDA@users.noreply.github.com>

website/versioned_docs/version-5.20.0/get-involved.md, after:

---
title: Get Involved
---

## Interact with the CDM community
 
**GitHub**

CDM activity primarily happens in this [CDM GitHub repository](https://github.com/finos/common-domain-model). [Watch](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/managing-subscriptions-and-notifications-on-github/setting-up-notifications/configuring-notifications#configuring-your-watch-settings-for-an-individual-repository) the repository in order to be notified of new Pull Requests and issues.
 
**Email**

If you'd like to receive official updates, please send an email to help@finos.org. You can join the CDM mailing list by sending an email to [cdm+subscribe@lists.finos.org](mailto:cdm+subscribe@lists.finos.org). 
 
**Meetings**

Finally, another great way to interact with the community is to attend the bi-weekly CDM Contribution Review Working Group, monthly Collateral Working Group, monthly FINOS CDM Structured Products Working Group, monthly Steering Technology Architecture Working Group, and/or quarterly FINOS CDM Steering Working Group: email help@finos.org to be added to the meeting invites directly, or find the meeting in the [FINOS Community Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=finos.org_fac8mo1rfc6ehscg0d80fi8jig%40group.calendar.google.com). 

**Need help?**

Email help@finos.org. if you need help getting started in the CDM Community or if you encounter technical difficulties accessing repositories, mailing lists or meetings. 

## Contacting CDM Maintainers
Please click [here](maintainers.md/#finos-cdm-project-maintainers) to view the CDM maintainers and their contact details. 

If you would like to get in touch with the CDM maintainer team, contact them through their mailing list at [https://lists.finos.org/g/cdm-maintainers](https://lists.finos.org/g/cdm-maintainers).
